hi can you tell us your names and what
course you teach I'm Steve lemon and I'm
jugged hard word and we teach course 100
which in MIT is introduction to
computation and engineering problem
solving and can you tell us what are the
goals of this particular class the
course is designed for students who are
not majoring in computer science but
need to have a basic comprehension of
computational methods and computer
programming so we draw students from all
the departments of MIT even once in a
while a computer science major takes the
course so our goals are to teach
students about computing teach them a
programming language and introduce them
to some introductory algorithms in
several different areas so what happens
on a daily basis in class we used to
teach it as a standard of lecture and
problem set course but we found that
many of the students would delay until
the night before the problem set to
really come to grips with the material
often in the wee hours of the morning
and so inspired by colleagues in physics
we tried to incorporate active learning
techniques in the course so in an
average week we'll have one of the two
standard lectures but we'll also have at
least one session where after presenting
the material we then ask the students to
work through a problem while we're
available to answer questions and the
TAS in the course circulate to and in
working out the problem very often that
involves programming so we've introduced
the use of laptops in the class so is it
a small group type of structure then or
how does how does the lecturer versus
the small group aspect of it work well
both those activities take place in a
lecture style hall but the students are
doing very different things in a lecture
it's very traditional one of us is in
front of the class for sustained periods
of time teaching students in the active
learning we typically pose a problem and
those of you who look at the
OpenCourseWare site will see notes where
we switch to that mode
and the students are solving guided
problems and then Judd and I and our
teaching assistants are wandering around
the room looking over people's shoulders
and helping them get through the guided
exercises and then we'll talk about them
we'll reassemble everybody in more
electro style to have a discussion about
what that assignment was about and that
might go back and forth several times
with the course of an active learning
session so how our students assess in
this area is it mostly on their coding
assignments are there also exams and
quizzes or can you say more about that
there are exams and quizzes but nobody
programs best under pressure so the
problem sets
we feel are a more reliable means of
assessing the students and actually we
think a lot of the learning in the
course comes from working through those
problem sets so by the end of the course
we actually combine two problem sets
over two or three weeks where we ask the
students in the first problem set to
plan a much more major assignment and we
pair them up so they're working in teams
and then they could their own design for
the final problem set of the course and
what size teams would they be working in
we usually use teams of two
it's always a trade-off larger teams
could do bigger projects but then the
logistics particularly at the end of a
busy semester of the students getting
together to cooperate turn out to be
complicated so we've decided on teams of
two
occasionally we'll have a team of three
who or in some rare cases someone will
just do the assignment on his or her own
actually the undergraduates in
management who were taught to work in
teams they've sometimes asked to work in
teams of three because they're used to
it now are there any other special
course elements as such as field trips
or guest lecturers or anything like that
that you incorporate no the course is in
that sense pretty traditional most of
the activities happen either in class we
do have tutorial sessions so in addition
to four to five hours of in-class time
with one of us the teaching assistants
take small groups usually 10 to 12
students and spend an hour a week in a
much more interactive style where they
can
much more closer to one-on-one and then
we all have extensive office hours where
we meet individually with students if
there's a problem set that the students
have particularly enjoyed sometimes we
have a competition we have them
programmed the game of life a couple of
years ago and we had a competition to
see who could add the most interesting
features to the game now is there
anything else that's sort of unique or
special about the class that you haven't
talked about so far well we're part of a
group of courses at MIT that are
experimenting with laptops in the
classroom right now MIT doesn't have a
laptop requirement so all students don't
have laptops many do of course a growing
fraction by them on their own so we
asked those who have them to bring them
to class we loan students who don't have
them laptops and many of the exercises
require using a laptop in the class and
as well as being used outside the class
okay any final thoughts well one thing
to emphasize about this course is well
right now we teach it in the java
language and the OpenCourseWare site
reflects the notes we've actually taught
it over time in many different languages
a central element of the course is it
really isn't about the programming
language they learn the programming
language but it's really about
algorithmic design reusable code modules
the notion of object-oriented
programming and I personally have taught
it and I think four or five different
languages over the last 25 years okay
well thank you very much for
participating in OpenCourseWare we
really appreciate your input thank you
thank you